buby
  by Eric Monti
  http://github.com/emonti/buby

== DESCRIPTION:

Buby is a mashup of JRuby with the popular commercial web security testing tool Burp Suite from PortSwigger.  Burp is driven from and tied to JRuby with a Java extension using the BurpExtender API.  This extension aims to add Ruby scriptability to Burp Suite with an interface comparable to the Burp's pure Java extension interface.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

* Intercept and log proxied requests and responses via Burp into Ruby and 
  perform arbitrary processing on them.

* Modify requests and responses in-line using Ruby scripts.

* Pass requests and other information from JRuby to various sub-interfaces in 
  Burp

* Use the Burp framework for active and passive scanning using arbitrary
  requests and responses.

* Use the Burp framework for making arbitrary HTTP requests


Buby is implemented using an abstract Ruby event handler and interface class. The Buby Ruby class is back-ended with a minimal BurpExtender class implemented in Java.  The java code is required to conform to nuances in the Burp extension interface and while it's in the pure Java runtime, it acts as 'glue' where deemed appropriate, but otherwise tries to stay out of the way.

The java BurpExtender included with Buby is an implementation of IBurpExtender which is the interface API supplied by PortSwigger for writing extensions to Burp Suite. It mostly acts as a method proxy between Ruby and Java, doing very little except event handler proxying between the java and ruby runtimes with run-time type conversion as needed.


== REQUIREMENTS:

* JRuby - http://jruby.org
  Burp is Java based and the extension is developed specifically around JRuby.
  The C version of ruby will not work.

* Burp (pro or free version): Buby is useless without a copy of Burp. 
  Buby has been tested successfully with both Burp Suite free and pro versions 
  1.2, 1.2.01, and 1.2.05. See http://portswigger.net/


== BUILD/INSTALL:

=== Gem
You should be able to get up and running with just the gem and a copy of Burp. 
I've packaged up a pre-built buby.jar file containing the required classes 
minus ofcourse, Burp itself. 

  gem install emonti-buby

* IMPORTANT: The buby gem doesn't include a copy of Burp!  See manual step #5 
below. For best results, you'll still want to make your burp.jar available 
in the ruby runtime library path.


=== Manual
Here are manual instructions if you want or need to build things yourself:

Step 1. Download buby from github
  git clone git://github.com/emonti/buby.git

Step 2. Compile BurpExtender.java. Include jruby.jar in the classpath:

  cd buby/java/src
  javac -classpath (.../jruby/root)/lib/jruby.jar:. BurpExtender.java

Step 3. Create a new lib/buby.jar

  jar cvf ../buby.jar .

Note: At this point you can also just do a rake gem:install from the 
top-level, which will install a local 'buby' gem instead of 'emonti-buby'. If
you do this, just skip the next step and move onto step #5.

Step 4. Copy buby.rb and jar to your JRuby lib-path. Locations may vary:

  cd ../../
  cp lib/buby.rb (.../jruby)/lib/site_ruby/1.8/
  cp -p java/buby.jar (.../jruby)/lib/site_ruby/1.8/java/buby.jar

Step 5. 

The last part is a bit tricky. Burp Suite itself is obviously not included
with buby. You'll want to somehow put your 'burp.jar' in a place where it 
is visible in the JRuby RUBY-LIB paths. There are a few other ways of pulling 
in Burp during runtime, but this method probably involves the least amount of 
hassle in the long run.

JRuby gives you a 'java' site_ruby directory for this kind of thing.  Here's a 
quick way to see jruby's runtime lib-path:
    
  jruby -e 'puts $:'

There is usually a '.../jruby/lib/1.8/java' directory reference in there, 
though the actual directory may need to be created.

Here's how I do it. I have jruby installation under my home directory.
Your configuration details can be substituted below. 

  mkdir ~/jruby-1.1.5/lib/ruby/1.8/java
  ln -s ~/tools/burp.jar ~/jruby-1.1.5/lib/ruby/1.8/java/burp.jar

Now everything should be ready to go. Try at least the first few parts of the 
test below to confirm everything is set up. Or if you installed the gem, just 
run 'buby' from the command-line.


== TEST AND USAGE EXAMPLE:

The gem includes a command-line tool called 'buby' but it doesn't do much right
now. You can, however use this as a minimal test to confirm whether Burp can be 
launched from ruby and whether Buby and Burp are connected.

Here are some really simple test examples using Buby through IRB:

  $ jruby -S irb

  require 'buby'
  $DEBUG = true

  # Here's one way to explicitely add burp.jar into the runtime if its not
  # already.
  Buby.load_burp("/path/to/burp.jar") if not Buby.burp_loaded?
  buby = Buby.start_burp()

At this point, you should see Burp starting and with the $DEBUG flag, you'll 
also see several debug messages in IRB coming from Buby as various events are 
generated by the BurpExtender java implementation. Once Burp is running, click 
on the alerts tab.

You should see now something like the following in alerts:

  2:46:01 PM  suite   method BurpExtender.processProxyMessage() found
  2:46:01 PM  suite   method BurpExtender.registerExtenderCallbacks() found
  2:46:01 PM  suite   method BurpExtender.setCommandLineArgs() found
  2:46:01 PM  suite   method BurpExtender.applicationClosing() found
  2:46:01 PM  proxy   proxy service started on port 8080
  2:46:01 PM  suite   [BurpExtender] registering JRuby handler callbacks
  2:46:01 PM  suite   [JRuby::Buby] registered callback

To confirm you are connected back to Burp in IRB, do the following:

  buby.alert("hello Burp!")

Which should produce a new alert:

  2:47:00 PM  suite   hello Burp!


Next, lets make an HTTP request through the proxy. We'll use Net:HTTP right 
in IRB for illustration purposes. However, you can just as easily perform this 
test through a browser configured to use Burp as its proxy.  

  require 'net/http'
  p = Net::HTTP::Proxy("localhost", 8080).start("www.example.com")
  p.get("/")


With $DEBUG = true, you should see the debugging output from Ruby as the proxy
passes your request back to your Ruby runtime.

It will look something like the following in IRB:

  >> p.get("/")   
  [:got_proxy_request,
   [:msg_ref, 1],
   [:is_req, true],
   [:rhost, "www.example.com"],
   [:rport, 80],
   [:is_https, false],
   [:http_meth, "GET"],
   [:url, "/"],
   [:resourceType, nil],
   [:status, nil],
   [:req_content_type, nil],
   [:message, "GET / HTTP/1.1\r\nAccept:..."],
   [:action, 0]]

You may also see the response right away depending on your intercept settings 
in Burp. Back the in Burp proxy's intercept window, turn off interception if 
it hasn't already been disabled. Now you should definitely see the response 
in IRB as it passes back through the Burp proxy.

  [:got_proxy_response,
   [:msg_ref, 1],
   [:is_req, false],
   [:rhost, "www.example.com"],
   [:rport, 80],
   [:is_https, false],
   [:http_meth, "GET"],
   [:url, "/"],
   [:resourceType, nil],
   [:status, "200"],
   [:req_content_type, "text/html; charset=utf-8"],
   [:message, "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\n..."],
   [:action, 0]]
  => #<Net::HTTPOK 200 OK readbody=true>
  >>

Note also, the Net::HTTP request should have returned the same result as shown in the proxy.

Now, lets try something mildly interesting with the proxy. This contrived example will implement a proxy request manipulator to do HTTP request verb tampering on every GET request that goes through the proxy. 

  # Note: I'm using 'instance_eval' here only to stay with the flow of the 
  # existing IRB session. Normally, you'd probably want to implement this as 
  # an override in your Buby-derived class.

  buby.instance_eval do

    def evt_proxy_message(*param)
      msg_ref, is_req, rhost, rport, is_https, http_meth, url, resourceType, 
      status, req_content_type, message, action = param

      if is_req and http_meth=="GET"
        # Change the HTTP request verb to something silly
        message[0,3] = "PET"

        # Forcibly disable interception in the Burp UI
        action[0] = Buby::ACTION_DONT_INTERCEPT

        # Return a new instance and still get $DEBUG info
        return super(*param).dup
      else
        # Just get $DEBUG info for all other requests
        return super(*param)
      end
    end

  end

  # Now, make another request using the Net::HTTP client
  p.get("/")


This should produce a request that looks like the following in IRB:

  [:got_proxy_request,
   ...
   [:message,
    "PET / HTTP/1.1\r\nAccept: */*\r\nUser-Agent: Ruby..."],
    [:action, 2]]

And, assuming 'www.example.com' checks for valid request verbs, you should see something like the following response:

  [:got_proxy_response,
   ...
   [:http_meth, "PET"],
   [:url, "/"],
   [:resourceType, nil],
   [:status, "400"],
   ...
   [:message,
    "HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request\r\nContent-Type:..."],
   [:action, 0]]
  => #<Net::HTTPBadRequest 400 Bad Request readbody=true>


== CREDIT:
* Burp and Burp Suite are trademarks of PortSwigger(ltd) 
  Copyright 2008 PortSwigger Ltd. All rights reserved.
  See http://portswigger.net for license terms.

* This ruby library and the accompanying BurpExtender.java implementation are 
  written by Eric Monti @ Matasano Security. Matasano Security claims no 
  professional or legal affiliation with PortSwigger LTD.

  However, the author would like to express his personal and professional 
  respect and admiration to Burp's authors and appreciation to PortSwigger for 
  the availability of the IBurpExtender extension API.

  The availability of this interface goes a long way to helping make Burp Suite 
  a truly first-class application.

== LICENSE:

* Burp and Burp Suite are trademarks of PortSwigger Ltd.
  Copyright 2008 PortSwigger Ltd. All rights reserved.
  See http://portswigger.net for license terms.

* The Buby Ruby library and its accompanying BurpExtender implementation are
  both freely available under the terms of the MIT public license:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (C) 2009 Eric Monti, Matasano Security

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the 'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 

